---
title: Research & Projects
updated: 2019-08-26
layout: default
main-img: assets/images/shasta_airport.png
main-img-title: Shasta airport, 2010
---

<div class="buttonspace">
    <a href="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Jake_Vincent4" class="rg-button a-button">ResearchGate profile</a>
</div>

### Current research
<div class="sectionnolist" markdown="1">

#### Extraction from relative clauses in English
[Download Qualifying Exam](assets/documents/jwv_rc_subext_eng.pdf){: .download-pdf .a-button} [R Notebooks](notebooks.html){: .r-notebook .a-button}

Relative clauses (RCs) are a prototypical example of a strong island, but certain languages have been shown to selectively tolerate RC subextraction (Mainland Scandinavian languages, certain Romance languages, Hebrew, and others). For subextraction to be licit in these languages, the DP that hosts the RC typically needs to be the pivot of a canonical or non-canonical existential, or otherwise non-presupposed.
						
It hasn't been heavily researched whether these patterns extend to English as well, but some research suggests that it does (see, e.g., [Chung & McCloskey 1983](http://www.jstor.org/stable/4178357) and [Kush et al. 2013](https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=DUAIAQAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA239&dq=kush+microvariation+in+islands&ots=0ABychxQnB&sig=pgZvVqUa2JsscxB_D05KuZ9fSt8#v=onepage&q=kush%20microvariation%20in%20islands&f=false)). I am currently using experimental methods to investigate whether English also selectively tolerates RC subextraction. So far, I have found that English RCs are substantially more transparent to extraction in existentials, as well as in predicate nominals (as found by [Sichel 2018](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/690046/pdf?casa_token=wBovu7pEZL4AAAAA:LnyFnb7FGW7T2e9nR6rx_UTE_-qQAHXBSaYbTjXJtR2KEVyCYlXZ7JrQEPMfIEuxqKNf9Otung) for Hebrew). I have written about these results [here](assets/documents/jwv_rc_subext_eng.pdf), and you can find my experiment notebooks [here](notebooks.html). I plan to investigate the online processing of RCs in these environments, and to address the question of whether these cases of improved RC subextraction should be generated by the grammar.

#### Internally headed relative clauses in Chamorro
[Download Qualifying Paper](https://cloudfront.escholarship.org/dist/prd/content/qt0jq7096r/qt0jq7096r.pdf?t=p3qtng){: .download-pdf .a-button}

Chamorro has a typologically rare construction in which a noun phrase being modified by a relative clause surfaces within that relative clause, as shown below.

<div class="example">
    <div class="all-align-units">
        <div class="align-unit">
            <div class="word">Chum&aring;lik</div>
            <div class="gloss"><span>sg.agr</span>:laugh</div>
        </div>
        <div class="align-unit">
            <div class="word">i</div>
            <div class="gloss">the</div>
        </div>
        <div class="align-unit">
            <div class="word">[mat&aring;'chung</div>
            <div class="gloss"><span>sg.agr</span>.sit</div>
        </div>
        <div class="align-unit">
            <div class="word">na</div>
            <div class="gloss"><span>lk</span></div>
        </div>
        <div class="align-unit">
            <div class="word"><b>p&aring;tgun</b></div>
            <div class="gloss">child</div>
        </div>
        <div class="align-unit">
            <div class="word">gi</div>
            <div class="gloss"><span>loc</span></div>
        </div>
        <div class="align-unit">
            <div class="word">siya.]</div>
            <div class="gloss">chair</div>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="free-transl">
        'The <b>child</b> [who sat in the chair] laughed.'
    </div>
</div>

I am researching Chamorro's head-internal relative clauses in relation to the language's head-initial and head-final relative clauses, and am developing an analysis of them that explains their island-sensitivity, the mandatory presence of the linker particle *na* directly before the internal head noun, certain interpretive effects, and their surface-similarity to stranding patterns in other A-bar contexts. You can read my MA thesis on this topic [here](https://cloudfront.escholarship.org/dist/prd/content/qt0jq7096r/qt0jq7096r.pdf?t=p3qtng).
</div>

### Other projects

<div class="sectionnolist">
<button class="expand-btn"><h4>Syllable parser</h4></button>
<div class="expand-content" markdown="1">

[See R implementation on GitHub](https://github.com/jakewvincent/R-syllable-parser){: .github-button .a-button}

I am currently working on a syllable parser that takes input in IPA characters and produces a syllabified output. Currently, the function follows essentially the same procedure that students are taught to follow in Phonology 1. It first identifies syllable nuclei (including diphthongs), then parses preceding consonants into the syllable of the following nucleus segment by segment (leaving segments unparsed if they don't form a legal onset cluster), and finally parsing remaining unparsed segments into the coda of the syllable of the preceding nucleus.

The program also includes an integration with the [](http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/cgi-bin/cmudict">Carnegie Mellon University Pronouncing Dictionary, which contains pronunciations for over 100,000 words. The script converts the ARPABET codes that come with the dictionary into IPA, which makes it possible to look for statistical patterns across English pronunciations and syllabifications.

</div>

<button class="expand-btn"><h4>HTML interlinear gloss generator</h4></button>
<div class="expand-content" markdown="1">

The following tool (written in JavaScript, HTML, and CSS) takes word, gloss, and free translation data and converts it into HTML that will display as an interlinear gloss when pasted into your website HTML file.

{% include gloss_generator.html %}

</div>

<button class="expand-btn"><h4>Rhyme in Chamorro poetry</h4></button>
<div class="expand-content" markdown="1">

In an undergraduate project, I analyzed 106 of Joaquin F. Borja's rhyme pairs from the collection of Chamorro literature *[Istreyas Marianas: Chamorro](http://books.google.com/books/about/Estreyas_Marianas.html?id=1oAmAQAAIAAJ)Istreyas Marianas: Chamorro*. Approximately 25% of the rhyme pairs there have strict rhyme (= identical from the vowel of the stressed syllable to the end of the word), and the remainder have what I called *abstract rhyme*, which seems to creatively utilize abstract associations between classes of segments established by the phonological processes in Chamorro grammar. The use of abstract rhyme results in a broad (yet orderly) range of licit rhyming pairs. ([handout](documents/champohandout.pdf))

</div>
</div>

<script src="assets/scripts/expand.js"></script>